Purpose: Abstract submitted to iGrid2005 http://www.startap.net/igrid2005 9/26-9/29

(A) REAL-TIME DEMONSTRATIONS (Organizer: Maxine Brown)
 
1.  Demonstration title.

OptIPuter-enabled Distributed Climate Data Reduction and Analysis

2.  Primary contact person\u2019s name, institution, e-mail address.

Charlie Zender
Department of Earth System Science
UC Irvine
zender@uci.edu

3.  Contact information for collaborators (name, institution, e-mail)

Gayathri Venkitachalam
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
UC Irvine
gvenkita@uci.edu

Harry Mangalam
Department of Earth System Science
UC Irvine
hjm@tacgi.com

4.  Project Description
      a.  One-paragraph summary of your project and its significance.

Reduction and analysis of distributed climate data is a significant
domain challenge facing geophysics researchers. 
Climatologists typically use the central server data analysis
paradigm---they copy all required data to local storage for analysis. 
Recent enhancements to the Scientific Data Operators (SDO) middleware
allow users to access specific hyperslabs of geographically
distributed netCDF data in a network-transparent fashion.  
Using grid services in conjunction with the high-bandwidth OptIPuter,
we will demonstrate SDO operations which dramatically reduce barriers
to analyzing distributed geophysical data.
In particular, we will demonstrate rapid and flexible intercomparison
and analysis of two future climate simulations stored on
geographically disparate clusters connected by the OptIPuter.

      b.  URL for further project documentation.

http://nco.sf.net#prp_sei

      c.  A graphical image (not logo) of your application (JPEG or
      TIFF) is encouraged. 

http://dust.ess.uci.edu/esmf/ipcc_ccsm_ddra.pdf

      d.  How does your project utilize advanced networking? Why is
      this important? 

The Scientific Data Operator (SDO) project currently utilizes advanced 
networking primarily by transferring large amounts of data from remote
servers to local clients for analysis. 
Without high-bandwidth networks, data distributed at geographically
disparate locations are never intercompared and so expensive numerical 
experiments (e.g., climate change simulations) are usually not fully
exploited, or worse, are re-run multiple times so that the data can be
analyzed locally.
SDO reduces distributed data analysis barriers, data storage
redundancy, and time-to-discovery.

5.  Hardware/Software requirements: Do you need to place any special
hardware (e.g., disk stores or clusters) at GLIF sites? 

Required hardware is already in place at UCI/UCSD, ESG, and NCAR

Do you need computer accounts at participating sites? What software do
you need on these machines? 

While the project could pre-store and access data at GLIF sites in
other countries, the combined software/hardware/account requirements
for new remote machines would overwhelm our group this year. 
We would prefer to demonstrate the project using data stored on
reliable networks and locations, such as UCI/UCSD, ESG, and NCAR. 
All required accounts and software exist at these locations.
All we require for the presentation is a Linux laptop from which to 
run the demonstration.

6.  Network requirements: What networks
    (locally/nationally/internationally) will you access? (Note: If
    these networks are not yet in place, when are they expected to be
    operational? And, at what speeds?) 

Earth System Grid, UCSD<->UCI OptIPuter, NCAR

7.  Network usage: How much bandwidth does your application use?
 
The application utilizes high bandwidth between the computational
clusters. However, the demonstration will like just show a text-based 
metric of the remote application progress and so the bandwidth needed
to the conference hall is minimal. 

(B) SYMPOSIUM PRESENTATIONS (Organizer: Tom DeFanti)
 
1.  Type of presentation
      a.  Tutorial, workshop, or lecture?
      b.  For a beginner, intermediate or advanced networking
      audience? 
      c.  If a tutorial or workshop, is it a half day or full day?
      NOTE: Lectures will be 30 minutes to 1 hour. Actual times will
      be determined once the Symposium\u2019s schedule is finalized. 

2.  Presentation title.

3.  Presenter\u2019s name, institution, e-mail address.

4.  Contact information for other presenters (name, institution,
e-mail) if a tutorial or workshop 

5.  Presentation description
      a.  One-paragraph abstract.
      b.  URL for further presentation documentation.
      c.  A graphical image of your presentation (JPEG, TIFF, PPT) is
      encouraged. 

6.   Audio/visual requirements: Projectors for PPT presentations will
     be provided. Do you have any special A/V needs? 
 
Submit Real-Time Demonstration and Symposium Presentation proposals
via email by 1 February 2005 for full consideration to: 
Maxine Brown <maxine@uic.edu>
 
Proposals will be reviewed by the iGrid 2005 Program
Committee. Further input may be requested. Results from the Program
Committee will be distributed by mid-March 2005. 
